---
title: "Kickoff"
date: 2023-06-03T11:10:36+08:00
draft: false
language: en
featured_image: ../assets/images/posts/kickoff_rocket.png
summary: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed cursus, odio nec venenatis lacinia, lacus lectus varius nisi, in tristique mi purus ut libero.
description: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed cursus, odio nec venenatis lacinia, lacus lectus varius nisi, in tristique mi purus ut libero. Vestibulum vel convallis felis. Ut finibus lorem vestibulum lobortis rhoncus.
author: Lukas Runge
authorimage: ../assets/images/global/LukasRunge.png
tags: ["News"]
---

Starting my journey as a lighting designer from the young age of 6 years I always wondered why setting up lighting rigs is such an involved and complicated process. Sure it works. In the end it always works if you troubleshoot wisely and take your time to really get to the bottom of the underlying issue, but most of the time when doing client work today I don't have the time to troubleshoot properly. I would much rather prefer peace of mind getting something to eat or drink minutes before the show, knowing that all systems are nominal. Sadly with many lighting rigs I sprint across the location till the last minute to get fixtures to be configured correctly, to get signal lines fixed or to straight up replace fixtures that seem to be broken. Following that I am back at FoH fixing broken fixture definitions or sometimes even writing new ones from scratch. As the event is already starting I do not have any more time for pre-programming so whatever the state of my showfile is at this point will be what I am operating lights on today I guess...

This is not a satisfying process!

Sure, one could say: you just need another person to support you on the job: a systems technician that takes care of all that overhead. But this isn't really fixing the underlying problem, right? It is just working around it with manpower. This is why I always thought: there has to be a better way.

But how does a better way look like? I mean we already have network based protocols like ArtNet and sACN - shouldn't they already solve our issues? As they are based on UDP and really only transmit DMX Data 30 times per Second via broadcast or multicast what we can do with those protocols is really nothing more that we could already do with dmx. What we really need is a new approach.

SHIFTY aims for exactly that. It tries to be a solution that it designed from the ground up to fix user experience for show designers once and for all.
